Create a task concept allows you to customise, you build further.
There is no limit to how many tasks you can register or implement yourself.
So if you have a certain automation need that's not covered by the plugins you applied because specific
to you set up or your way to packaging your application or things like that, you can do that with Gradle,
especially, things that are about handling files are often not too hard to do because they are already
task implementations for these kind of things that you can take from where to core and configure.
So the thing we will do now is register a new task without actually implementing a task action because
we'll take an implementation that's already available.
As an example, let's consider that you want to zip all the jobs that make up all application into a
single zip file where this application plugin actually already comes through the functionality like
this.
But let's assume you want to have a custom way of doing this, which is not too uncommon to do for things
like this.
Gradle already offers the zip task implementation.
To register a new task.
You use the tasks dot which is the notation.
You give the task a name?
And then again in the parenthesis notation, you can define a type that the task should get.
In this case, zip.
Now with the type set here, Greater knows the task under this name is available and can potentially
be called or connected to other tasks.
And inside the configuration block, we have access to the details of this task so we can configure
its inputs and outputs.
Because this is a completely new richest task.
We have to configure some things, although also freshly registered tasks may come with some conventions
that we don't need to configure.
In this case, what we definitely have to say is which files we want to zip for this.
The task of us from notation here we can put in arbitrary many files that should go into the zip file.
Now we could write something like this, which is a path to a file.
But that's not what we want.
If you remember, what we should do is connect task inputs and outputs so that Gradle knows which task
it needs to run to actually produce this jar that we want to put into the zip file.
So instead of giving a path to a jar here, we can say that what should be packaged is the output of
the jar task.
We also want the jobs of all the dependencies.
So this will offer us a concept called the runtime class pass which can be accessed via the configurations
container.
What configurations are, which is the central concept and where dependency management is something
we'll talk about in a later lecture about dependency management.
For now, it's enough to know that you can access the runtime class pass here and through this, creating
those dependencies, which are our two other components data model and business logic and the external
dependency to common slang which we defined at some point will also knows that if the JAR file behind
one of these dependencies is something that needs to be built by gradle like the jar file, that is
the output of the data model.
So the task of the data model and the dependency of the JAR task will become part of the task graph.
If we configure our task like this, then we also need to configure the output.
So where should the zip file go?
Zip task of destination directory property for this.
We should set this to some unique directory inside the build folder.
Also here, it's good to not put a static pass here.
Instead, we get a reference to the build directory through the layout container.
So we layout the build directory and then choose a directory inside the build directory.
Doing it that way doesn't hard code built as a build directory and it could potentially also be changed
if you want to build output to end up somewhere else.
And then there are two details on each tasks that you can set to make it easier, discoverable and usable.
So one thing is a group which is used to sort task in the complete task list and a description that
can give some idea of what the task is about which will be printed if you use the tasks task to show
all the tasks available in the project.
After we edit the task, we condense the project again.
And then we can see that the task now turns up in the grade review inside the group we defined here.
If we run the task task for the A project, we also see that our group is now part of the output that's
printed here and it contains our new task with the description.
If we tell Gradle now to execute our new task, we can see that all the dependent tasks have also been
executed.
So a task graph has been built based on the inputs we define to our task.
We can also see that if we run the build again, that our new league, which is that task, also is
up to date after we run it a second time.
So the up to date checking also works for tasks we register ourselves.
You can find the result in the build folder and if we extract it, we can see that it contains the four
jar files as expected.
We have seen that we can add new functionality to our build by registering new tasks using task implementation
that are provided by Gradle already.
For example, for zipping files or copying files, the inputs of such tasks should be configured in
terms of other tasks.
Output then denotes the dependencies between the tasks and builds the task of correctly up to date checking
and caching if applicable.
Also work for these tasks.